user-initscripts
================

user-initscripts is a user daemon system based on and relying upon the Arch Linux initscripts
system.

User daemons
------------

User daemons are similar to the system daemons, except they can be run by unprivileged users.
Like system daemons, user daemons are controled by dedicated scripts.
user-initscripts is very similar in design to the Arch Linux initscripts.

The following table shows the equivalences between the elements of the two systems.

| **initscripts**                   | **user-initscripts**                              |
|-----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| `/etc/rc.conf`                    | `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/user-rc.conf`                   |
| `/etc/rc.d`                       | `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/user-rc.d` and `/etc/user-rc.d` |
| `/etc/rc.d/functions`             | `/etc/user-rc.d/functions`                        |
| `/usr/sbin/rc.d`                  | `/usr/sbin/user-rc.d`                             |


All the started daemons are properly stopped when the system shuts down.


It is also possible to have daemons automatically started when a user session starts.

Daemon scripts
--------------

The daemon scripts search path is `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/user-rc.d:/etc/user-rc.d`, so it is suitable for
both package-provided scripts and user-provided scripts.


See https://gist.github.com/1960771 for an example.


The files `/etc/rc.conf`, `/etc/rc.d/functions` *and* `/etc/user-rc.d/functions` *must* be sourced
by the script.

The user-rc.d command
---------------------

The `user-rc.d` command has basically the same role and the same syntax as the `rc.d` command,
but with a few differences:

 * `user-rc.d autostart` starts the daemons of the `USER_DAEMONS` array from the `user-rc.conf`
   file,
 * `user-rc.d stop_all` stops all the running daemons,
 * The --tag <tag> option allows to filter the targeted deamons by tag.

Tagging
-------

One feature introduced in user-initscripts is deamon tagging.
Daemons can be tagged by modifying the `USER_DAEMON_TAGS` associative array in the
`$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/user-rc.conf` file.
Tagged daemons can be easily autostarted and stopped by `user-rc.d`.
Tags are user-defined.

Autostarting daemons
--------------------
Automatically started daemons must be put in the `USER_DAEMONS` array of the
`$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/user-rc.conf` file. A template of this file can be found in
`/usr/share/user-initscripts/examples`.

A call of `user-rc.d autostart` when the user session starts will start these daemons.
Because of the wide variety of shells and desktop environnements available, this step is left to the
user.

For instance, if you use bash you might want to put `/usr/sbin/user-rc.d autostart` in your
`~/.bash_profile`, so that daemons are automatically started when you enter a login shell.

With KDE, you might want to add the following script in `$(kde-config --localprefix)/Autostart`:

```shell
#!/bin/sh
/usr/sbin/user-rc.d autostart
```

You may also want to stop the daemons when you close your session by adding the following script in
`$(kde-config --localprefix)/shutdown)`:

```shell
#!/bin/sh
/usr/sbin/user-rc.d stop_all
```

Be careful with that last script because if you have multiple sessions, the daemons will be stopped
as soon as the first session is closed.

More advanced code snippets can be found in `/usr/share/user-initscripts/examples`.
```
